update(blog)!: Privacy-Enhancing Technologies Series: Homomorphic Encryption (#3082)
privacyguides/privacyguides.org: blog/posts/homomorphic-encryption.md

---
date:
    created: 2025-07-24T19:00:00Z
categories:
    - Explainers
authors:
    - fria
tags:
    - Privacy-Enhancing Technologies
    - Homomorphic Encryption
license: BY-SA
schema_type: BackgroundNewsArticle
description: We rely on services that process our data every day. It's accepted that in order to process our data, the service needs to see it in plaintext, however homomorphic encryption aims to change that by bringing end-to-end encryption to server-side processing.
preview: blog/assets/images/homomorphic-encryption/cover.png
---

# Privacy-Enhancing Technologies Series: Homomorphic Encryption

![Image of a circuit with a shield and lock on it](../assets/images/homomorphic-encryption/cover.png)

<small aria-hidden="true">Illustration: fria / Privacy Guides</small>

We rely on lots of server-facing services in our day to day lives, whether it's using server-side AI like ChatGPT or querying search engines. It's just assumed that when we use services like this, those services need to process our data in the clear. But, with homomorphic encryption, data can be processed server-side while still remaining E2EE.<!-- more -->

## Privacy Violations

> We've surrendered much of our lives to the services we use everyday, including music and video streaming, extensive search engine queries, and long exchanges with AI services like ChatGPT. Even things we don't typically think of as online services like buying things at the store usually query a database somewhere sight unseen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've surrendered much of our lives to the services we use everyday, including music and video streaming, extensive search engine queries, and long exchanges with AI services like ChatGPT. Even things we don't typically think of as online services, like buying things at the store, usually query a database somewhere sight unseen.
```

- full name
- title
- date of birth
- gender
- email address
- address
- phone number
- individual healthcare identifier (IHI)
- Medicare card number, including individual identifier, and expiry
- Pensioner Concession card number and expiry
- Commonwealth Seniors card number and expiry
- Healthcare Concession card number and expiry
- Department of Veterans’ Affairs (DVA) (Gold, White, Orange) card number and expiry
- prescription medication, including name of drug, strength, quantity and repeats
- reason for prescription and instructions

An absolutely devastating breach of user privacy by any metric.

### OpenAI

When services process our data in the clear, we not only run the risk of the service themselves abusing their access to that data, but also court orders legally requiring them to retain data.

OpenAI was required to [retain](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2025/06/openai-says-court-forcing-it-to-save-all-chatgpt-logs-is-a-privacy-nightmare/) all ChatGPT user logs, even deleted ones. This is devastating for user privacy when you consider that ChatGPT handles over [1 billion](https://x.com/OpenAINewsroom/status/1864373399218475440) queries per day.

> This is a clear violation of user privacy, and it happened out of the blue in a lawsuit that wasn't even related to user privacy. When companies have access to our data, it might not even be up to them how it's handled sometimes. This is why E2EE is so important: it's not only about trust but about making it so services *can't* access data even if they tried.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a clear violation of user privacy, and it happened out of the blue in a lawsuit that wasn't even related to user privacy. When companies have access to our data, it might not even be up to them how it's handled sometimes. This is why **end-to-end encryption** is so important: It's not only about trust but also about technical guarantees against unauthorized access to data by the services themselves.
```

## Beginnings of Homomorphic Encryption

> As is typical, the first mention of homomorphic encryption come from a paper from 1978 titled *[ON DATA BANKS AND PRIVACY HOMOMORPHISMS](https://people.csail.mit.edu/rivest/pubs/RAD78.pdf)*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As is typical, the first mention of homomorphic encryption comes from a paper from 1978 titled *[ON DATA BANKS AND PRIVACY HOMOMORPHISMS](https://people.csail.mit.edu/rivest/pubs/RAD78.pdf)*.
```

The second solution they propose is a solution that doesn't require decryption of user data at all, which they call "privacy homomorphisms". The examples they give theoretically allow for addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division on encrypted data, although they state in the paper that many of them are likely not secure.

Notably, the schemes mentioned allow only for *either* addition and subtraction *or* multiplication and division, which means if you want to do both you need to decrypt the data. Since these schemes can only perform one type of operation or the other, they're considered *partially homomorphic*.

Despite the shaky security of these early schemes, they would lay the groundwork for the field in the field going forward.

## Fully Homomorphic Encryption

It wasn't until 2009 when the idea of homomorphic encryption would be improved on in *[A FULLY HOMOMORPHIC ENCRYPTION SCHEME](https://crypto.stanford.edu/craig/craig-thesis.pdf)* by Craig Gentry.

> This paper introduced fully homomorphic encryption, which allows for *both* addition *and* multiplication, meaning it can now theoretically be used for any calculation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This paper introduced fully homomorphic encryption (FHE), which allows for *both* addition *and* multiplication, meaning it can now theoretically be used for any calculation.
```

The scheme relies on some injected "noise" when performing operations. When adding, the noise is increased, but when multiplying the noise is amplified quite a bit. The scheme relies on staying below a certain noise threshold so that the answer can be decrypted and still be accurate.

This limits how many operations can be done on the numbers before they become too noisy to use.

However, it's possible to "bootstrap" after it gets too noisy, resetting the noise to below the threshold. This gives this scheme the ability to do as many operations as you want since you can just keep resetting the noise.

> It's based around ideal lattices because they have some useful properties allowing for more efficient key generation and algabraic operations. Because it's based on lattices, it's considered quantum resistant as well (there's no known efficient algorithm to solve lattice problems).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's based around ideal lattices because they have some useful properties allowing for more efficient key generation and algebraic operations. Because it's based on lattices, it's considered quantum resistant as well (there's no known efficient algorithm to solve lattice problems).
```

Unfortunately these early homomorphic encryption schemes weren't very performant, taking up to [30 minutes per bootstrapping operation](https://eprint.iacr.org/2010/520). Obviously, this is not ideal and prevents the scheme from being used for any real world tasks.

## Second Generation FHE

> Several papers would chip away at the inefficiencies of Gentry's original scheme, finding ways of improving it over the next few years. They found a way to manage noise better

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Several papers would chip away at the inefficiencies of Gentry's original scheme, finding ways of improving it over the next few years like discovering how to manage noise better.
```

Still, even with all of these improvements, the second generation fully-homomorphic schemes would still rely on bootstrapping a partially-homomorphic scheme.

> [Researchers](https://eprint.iacr.org/2011/344.pdf) were able to achieve fully homomorphic encryption using arbitrary lattices instead of ideal lattices using a new relinearization technique. They were also able to remove the *squashing* step, improving efficiency and reducing the amount of assumptions that have to be made.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Researchers](https://eprint.iacr.org/2011/344.pdf) were able to achieve FHE using arbitrary lattices instead of ideal lattices using a new relinearization technique. They were also able to remove the *squashing* step, improving efficiency and reducing the amount of assumptions that have to be made.
```

> A later [paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2011/277.pdf) introduced *leveled* homomorphic encryption, allowing for evaluating problems of any length. It introduced modulus switching as an improved noise reduction technique. It also  used bootstrapping as an optimization instead of being required to achieve fully homomorphic encryption. They also introduced *batching*, where they incorporate multiple plaintexts into one ciphertext, allowing them to evaluate multiple inputs with the same efficiency as evaluating one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A later [paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2011/277.pdf) introduced *leveled* homomorphic encryption, allowing for evaluating problems of any length. It introduced modulus switching as an improved noise reduction technique. It also used bootstrapping as an optimization instead of as a mandatory step to achieve fully homomorphic encryption. They also introduced *batching*, where they incorporate multiple plaintexts into one ciphertext, allowing them to evaluate multiple inputs with the same efficiency as evaluating one.
```

By 2014 [researchers](https://eprint.iacr.org/2014/816.pdf) had figured out how to reduce the bootstrapping procedure down to less than a second on an average PC of the day, compared to about six minutes on previous schemes.

## Fourth Generation FHE

An [advancement](https://eprint.iacr.org/2016/421.pdf) in 2016 allowed for efficient approximate operations, similar to how floating point operations always have an error. The noise added for security is considered to be part of error correction, which is reduced by a new technique called *rescaling*. They also improved efficiency by introducing a new batching technique.

## FHE Today

Fully-homomorphic encryption has advanced enough that it's become practical to use for some limited applications. Many big tech companies have released their own open source implementations of FHE and work is ongoing on making FHE more efficient and making development of FHE software easier.

> It's already being used for some highly sensitive applications like [banking](https://ibm-research.medium.com/top-brazilian-bank-pilots-privacy-encryption-quantum-computers-cant-break-92ed2695bf14) and [genome analysis](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/how-to-preserve-the-privacy-of-your-genomic-data/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's already being used for some highly sensitive applications like [banking](https://ibm-research.medium.com/top-brazilian-bank-pilots-privacy-encryption-quantum-computers-cant-break-92ed2695bf14) and [genome analysis](https://scientificamerican.com/article/how-to-preserve-the-privacy-of-your-genomic-data).
```

If you want to see an example of (non-production quality) FHE used to serve a website, [spiralwiki.com](https://spiralwiki.com) allows you to use Wikipedia with FHE. The load times are a bit long, but it's an interesting demo.

### OpenFHE

In the interest of making FHE as accessible and open as possible, [OpenFHE](https://openfhe-development.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) is an open-source library that offers efficient implementations of different FHE schemes, with the aim of making it easier for developers to implement FHE.

### IBM

> IBM were one of the first companies to release an open source FHE library in 2013. Their [HElib](https://github.com/homenc/HElib) was mentioned in several papers and drove the field of FHE forward. As a cloud-focused company it makes a lot of sense that they would want to protect their customers' and their customers' customers' data as much as possible, and making efficient FHE ought to be at the top of their priority list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IBM was one of the first companies to release an open-source FHE library in 2013. Their [HElib](https://github.com/homenc/HElib) was mentioned in several papers and drove the field of FHE forward. As a cloud-focused company, it makes a lot of sense that they would want to protect their customers and their respective data as much as possible, and making efficient FHE ought to be at the top of their priority list.
```

> IBM offers FHE as part of its [security consulting services](https://www.ibm.com/services/security) so companies can transition to more secure data processing. They also offer an [SDK](https://ibm.github.io/helayers/) so developers can easily implement their data processing needs with FHE capabilities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IBM offers FHE as part of its [security consulting services](https://ibm.com/services/security) so companies can transition to more secure data processing. They also offer an [SDK](https://ibm.github.io/helayers) so developers can easily implement their data processing needs with FHE capabilities.
```

### Microsoft

> Microsoft released its open source FHE library next, called [SEAL](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/project/microsoft-seal/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Subsequently, Microsoft released its open-source FHE library called [SEAL](https://microsoft.com/en-us/research/project/microsoft-seal).
```

> Microsoft uses FHE for their Password Monitor feature for the [password manager](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/blog/password-monitor-safeguarding-passwords-in-microsoft-edge/) in Edge, which checks if your password has been found in a public data breach.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Microsoft uses FHE for the [Password Monitor](https://microsoft.com/en-us/research/blog/password-monitor-safeguarding-passwords-in-microsoft-edge) feature of Edge's built-in password manager, which checks if your password has been found in a public data breach.
```

### Apple

Apple is making use of [FHE](https://machinelearning.apple.com/research/homomorphic-encryption) mainly for privately looking up info on a server.

> It's currenty used for [Enhnaced Visual Search](https://support.apple.com/en-us/122033) to privately look up landmarks in photos, and their [caller ID lookup](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/identitylookup/getting-up-to-date-calling-and-blocking-information-for-your-app) feature, as well as a few other places.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's currently used for [Enhanced Visual Search](https://support.apple.com/en-us/122033) to privately look up landmarks in photos, and their [caller ID lookup](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/identitylookup/getting-up-to-date-calling-and-blocking-information-for-your-app) feature, as well as a few other places.
```

> It's a modest start for the technology but I think we'lll see more and more uses over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's a modest start for the technology but I think we'll see more and more uses over time.
```

Apple has also developed a [FHE library for Swift](https://github.com/apple/swift-homomorphic-encryption) and open sourced it so anyone developing in Swift can use it.

### Google

Google has put a lot of effort into advancing FHE, although I couldn't find any examples of them using FHE in their products as of yet.

> Their [HEIR](https://heir.dev) project is a compiler that aims to be "the industry-standard compiler for FHE." HEIR casts a wide net; they want to allow developers to easily convert their high-level programs to use FHE, while also supporting code generation for upcoming FHE hardware accelerators. They also want to be a one-stop shop for researchers who are looking to optimize a particular part of an algorithm. They can use HEIR as a benchmark to test against, and if their optimization becomes standard, it can be implemented within HEIR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Their [HEIR](https://heir.dev) project is a compiler that aims to be "the industry-standard compiler for FHE." HEIR casts a wide net: They want to allow developers to easily convert their high-level programs to use FHE while also supporting code generation for upcoming FHE hardware accelerators. They also want to be a one-stop shop for researchers who are looking to optimize a particular part of an algorithm. They can use HEIR as a benchmark to test against, and if their optimization becomes standard, it can be implemented within HEIR.
```

Google's goals are ambitious, and I hope it works out the way they're hoping. The landscape of FHE is very complex, with many companies putting forth their own implementations of FHE and several different organizations all with similar names and aims. It's a bit confusing to follow, so I hope it can be simplified in the future.

> I'd like to see Google openly using FHE in their products, they seem to bizarrely falling behind other companies like Apple on using E2EE on their own products while also being at the forefront of research.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I'd like to see Google openly using FHE in their products. They seem to be bizarrely falling behind other companies like Apple on using E2EE for their own products while also being at the forefront of research.
```

## Looking Toward the Future of FHE

> Lots of companies are working toward [standardizing](https://www.iso.org/standard/87638.html) and accelerating the adoption of FHE. Dedicated FHE hardware promises to increase the speed of FHE computations to be practical to use on many more applications, and we're seeing a big effort toward making it more and more accessible for developers to implement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lots of companies are working toward [standardizing](https://iso.org/standard/87638.html) and accelerating the adoption of FHE. Dedicated FHE hardware promises to increase the speed of FHE computations to be practical to use on many more applications, and we're seeing a big effort toward making it more and more accessible for developers to implement.
```

### HomomorphicEncryption.org

> [HomomorphicEncryption.org](https://homomorphicencryption.org/standard/) represents a collaboration between government agencies, industry leaders, and academics. It's the biggest effort toward establishing a standard for FHE and while that hasn't happened yet, it's on the horizon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[HomomorphicEncryption.org](https://homomorphicencryption.org/standard) represents a collaboration between government agencies, industry leaders, and academics. It's the biggest effort toward establishing a standard for FHE and while that hasn't happened yet, it's on the horizon.
```

Open, standardized, and battle-tested FHE is fast approaching.

### FHE Hardware

> One of the main bottlenecks for adoption of FHE is the extra computation cost. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the main bottlenecks for the adoption of FHE is the extra computation cost. 
```

> In an effort to address this issue, DARPA introduced their [Data Protection in Virtual Environments (DPRIVE) program](https://www.darpa.mil/news/2021/homomorphic-encryption), working directly with four companies: Duality Technologies, Galois, SRI International, and Intel Federal. The end goal? To create hardware accelerators that can bring the speed closer to what the computations would be in plaintext.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In an effort to address this issue, DARPA introduced their [Data Protection in Virtual Environments (DPRIVE) program](https://darpa.mil/news/2021/homomorphic-encryption), working directly with four companies: Duality Technologies, Galois, SRI International, and Intel Federal. The end goal? To create hardware accelerators that can bring the speed closer to what the computations would be in plaintext.
```

Similar to [hardware-accelerated AES](https://www.ti.com/lit/ug/slau458f/slau458f.pdf?ts=1753712760177&ref_url=https%253A%252F%252Fduckduckgo.com%252F) we have in chips nowadays, these [hardware accelerators](https://spectrum.ieee.org/homomorphic-encryption) could enable FHE at speeds fast enough to be practical for most everyday computations.(1)
{ .annotate }

> 1. This is an example of [Private Information Retrieval](https://crypto.stanford.edu/pir-library/) (PIR)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. This is an example of [Private Information Retrieval](https://crypto.stanford.edu/pir-library) (PIR).
```

#### BASALISC

> Galois's Bespoke Asynchronous Silicon-Accelerated LWE Intrinsics through Software/Hardware Codesign (BASALISC) is their attempt at creating a FHE [ASIC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application-specific_integrated_circuit). Galois estimates it can speed up FHE by around 10,000 times

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Galois's Bespoke Asynchronous Silicon-Accelerated LWE Intrinsics through Software/Hardware Codesign (BASALISC) is their attempt at creating a FHE [ASIC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application-specific_integrated_circuit). Galois estimates it can speed up FHE by around 10,000 times.
```

#### HERACLES

Intel's [HERACLES](https://community.intel.com/t5/Blogs/Tech-Innovation/Data-Center/Intel-Labs-Continues-Focused-Research-and-Standards-Efforts-to/post/1488532) is their own attempt at a FHE accelerator.

Intel also released an [SDK](https://github.com/IntelLabs/encrypted-computing-sdk) to allow developers to easily develop FHE solutions for different architectures, with hopes to eventually integrate with Google's [HEIR](https://heir.dev) compiler.

> They also developed a [FHE library](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/technical/homomorphic-encryption/accelerating-homomorphic-encryption-for-fpga.html) for Field-Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs), essentially a circuit that can have its logic reprogrammed after manufacturing. While not offering the same efficiency as dedicated hardware, they could act as a stopgap while ASICs and hardware accelerators for FHE are finalized.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
They also developed a [FHE library](https://intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/technical/homomorphic-encryption/accelerating-homomorphic-encryption-for-fpga.html) for Field-Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs), essentially a circuit that can have its logic reprogrammed after manufacturing. While not offering the same efficiency as dedicated hardware, they could act as a stopgap while ASICs and hardware accelerators for FHE are finalized.
```

#### Mx^80 FracTLcore

> Cornami's [Mx^80 FracTLcore](https://cornami.net/mx80-system/) system boasts "Encrypted Computing as Plaintext Speed", which is extremely interesting to say the least. The hardware isn't available yet but they offer [early access](https://scifrapi.cornami.com/connect/) if you sign up through their website. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cornami's [Mx^80 FracTLcore](https://cornami.net/mx80-system) system boasts "Encrypted Computing as Plaintext Speed", which is extremely interesting to say the least. The hardware isn't available yet but they offer [early access](https://scifrapi.cornami.com/connect) if you sign up through their website.
```

Their computing is based on parallelism of data processing utilizing between thousands and millions of cores, able to scale cleanly depending on your needs. Since FHE operations can be made more efficient by batching computations together, their new parallel computing architecture shows promise for pushing FHE into being much closer to the same speed as plaintext computations.

> I'm curious to see these claims put up to scrutiny, because if they're true then that would be completely revolutionary; it would mean that we could finally start replacing plaintext processing of data with FHE with almost no extra overhead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I'm curious to see these claims put up to scrutiny, because if they're true then that would be completely revolutionary. It would mean that we could finally start replacing plaintext processing of data with FHE with almost no extra overhead.
```

#### TREBUCHET

Duality's offering is [TREBUCHET](https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/521.pdf). They seem to be taking a more holistic approach, trying to optimize every aspect of the chip in order to reduce complexity and make each component work well together.

For example, TREBUCHET utilized Ring Processing Units with multiple lanes for quickly processing data relevant to FHE. They also support memory management by scheduling data to be near computational elements. There are many of these RPUs throughout the device, allowing for efficient parallelism. The chips are able to omit the need for complex and costly caches, dynamic scheduling logic, and prediction, and task the compiler with scheduling and data movement at compile time.

#### Fabric

> [Fabric Technologies](https://www.fabriccryptography.com/blog/risc-zero-announcement) is casting a wider net and aiming to make a "Verifiable Processing Unit" or VPU, a type of chip that handles multiple cryptography-related operations such as FHE and Zero-Knowledge Proofs. I'm curious how a chip that's designed to be more general will fare compared to other competitors in the FHE space.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Fabric Technologies](https://fabriccryptography.com/blog/risc-zero-announcement) is casting a wider net and aiming to make a "Verifiable Processing Unit" or VPU, a type of chip that handles multiple cryptography-related operations such as FHE and Zero-Knowledge Proofs. I'm curious how a chip that's designed to be more general will fare compared to other competitors in the FHE space.
```

> According to a [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidprosser/2024/08/19/how-fabric-cryptography-plans-to-become-the-nvidia-of-privacy-tech/) article, they were looking to launch in 2025, but their last blog post is from October 2024. I can't seem to find any info on if they successfully launched or not, so we should keep an eye out I suppose.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
According to a [Forbes](https://forbes.com/sites/davidprosser/2024/08/19/how-fabric-cryptography-plans-to-become-the-nvidia-of-privacy-tech) article, they were looking to launch in 2025, but their last blog post is from October 2024. I can't seem to find any info on if they successfully launched or not, so we should keep an eye out I suppose.
```

#### Optalsys

> This one's a doozy. You're probably familiar with fiber optics that are able to transmit data at a high speed and efficiency compared to electrical signals. [Optalsys](https://optalysys.com/article/silicon-photonics-a-new-approach-to-acceleration/) is looking to bring that speed and efficiency to chips themselves, actually processing data using light instead of electricity. They call it "silicon photonics."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This one's a doozy. You're probably familiar with fiber optics that are able to transmit data at a high speed and efficiency compared to electrical signals. [Optalsys](https://optalysys.com/article/silicon-photonics-a-new-approach-to-acceleration) is looking to bring that speed and efficiency to chips themselves, actually processing data using light instead of electricity. They call it "silicon photonics."
```

> This one's a doozy. You're probably familiar with fiber optics that are able to transmit data at a high speed and efficiency compared to electrical signals. [Optalsys](https://optalysys.com/article/silicon-photonics-a-new-approach-to-acceleration) is looking to bring that speed and efficiency to chips themselves, actually processing data using light instead of electricity. They call it "silicon photonics."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This one's a doozy. You're probably familiar with fiber optics that are able to transmit data at a high speed and efficiency compared to electrical signals. [Optalysys](https://optalysys.com/article/silicon-photonics-a-new-approach-to-acceleration) is looking to bring that speed and efficiency to chips themselves, actually processing data using light instead of electricity. They call it "silicon photonics."
```

> Optalsys believes the extra speed provided by this tech could make FHE more scalable and efficient. Their [LightLocker Node](https://optalysys.com/lightlocker-node/) is their FHE offering, and unlike other products I've listed, it seems that it's actually [launched](https://optalysys.com/resource/lightlocker-launch/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Optalsys believes the extra speed provided by this tech could make FHE more scalable and efficient. They offer FHE through [LightLocker Node](https://optalysys.com/lightlocker-node) and unlike the other products I've listed, it seems that it's actually [launched](https://optalysys.com/resource/lightlocker-launch).
```

## Final Thoughts

> FHE has come a long way in such a short time, it's really only been about 16 years since the first FHE scheme was proposed and we're already seeing a huge push from the government, big tech companies, and academia, as well as a massive push for openness and collaboration from everyone involved. It's truly a great thing to see and definitely something I'd like to see more of.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
FHE has come a long way in such a short time. It's only been about 16 years since the first FHE scheme was proposed and we're already seeing a huge push from governments, big tech companies, and academia, as well as a massive push for openness and collaboration from everyone involved. It's truly a great thing to see and definitely something I'd like to see more of.
```
